---
layout: layouts/post.njk
title: Club Meeting - Minutes
date: 2018-09-11T14:20:27.139Z
tags:
  - club
  - minutes
---
Thanks to everyone who attended the meeting at House of the Trembling Madness. It was a productive evening at a great venue to which we'll undoubtedly be returning.

Below are my notes / minutes from that meeting:

* Apologies from Jamie Sharp, Pete Hook, Nick Findlay, Ian Holmes, Jonathan Apaloo and Paul Goulden
* Club Finances
  * Club assets increased by £278.74 in 2017
  * Income: £510.09
  * Outgoings: £231.35
  * Website costs
  * BC and CTT affiliations
  * £10 overpayment to Pete Lambert for website costs (now resolved)
* Memberships
  * New Member - Andrew McGowan. Welcome.
  * 25 members renewed this year (since 1st of April when subscriptions expired).
  * 20 members are lapsed (no renewal yet)
  * Regular riders should be encouraged to join/pay their subs
  * Subscriptions run April-April and can be paid through the BC website (via https://veloclubyork.co.uk/join)
  * Pete Lambert to investigate costs of receiving Direct Debit payments through GoCardless
* Chaingang
  * It’s no longer a chaingang, just a ‘smash-fest’
  * Suggestion of making one of the two rides a strict, disciplined paceline and allowing the other to continue as a smash-up.
  * Suggestion from Phil Graves to change Thursday route to the Melbourne loop we tried this year. Safer and better surfaces.
  * Addition of two new regular routes: Malton route plus one other (Chris Clark to plan new route)
  * New routes will be calendared, alternating Week One/Week Two. A calendar will be made available on the website (Pete Lambert to sort)
  * Best chain gangs this year occurred when someone acted as road captain. Road captains required for every chaingang ride going forward to ensure groups work.
* Weekend club runs
* Sundays are done for now as most prefer Saturday
* Sunday, 9am at the shelter will remain on the website as a ‘meeting point’ in case people want to ride, but will not be part of the regular rides.
* Saturday rides - suggestion that we do more ‘epics’ (100+ milers)
* Winter club runs
  * Road:
  * Will continue as before
  * Off-Road:
    * We’ll be running a more regular off-road club-run
    * Chris Clark to plan routes
    * Routes will be announced mid-week prior to a ride to enable people to plan transport, etc.
* A WhatsApp group will be set up for the whole club (see AOB, below) to disseminate ride information (location, length, difficulty, type of bike required, etc) and take contact details for those interested
* Emergency Contact details required for all involve
* We’ll have to be strict on turning away riders with insufficient ability, unsuitable bike or clothing, etc.
* YorkCross
  * Classic YorkCross route is in good condition
  * Interest has waned in the last year - numbers have fallen
  * Nobody present at meeting was planning on racing CX this year
  * Ride to remain on roster on an informal basis, with meetings to be arranged through VC York WhatsApp Group (See AOB)
* Charity ride
  * Last year’s charity ride raised £240 for Yorkshire Air Ambulance
  * Same format this year - Club run on the Wolds reliability route with charity donations through JustGiving and in person
  * 28th October will be the date for this year’s ride.
* Team Events
  * Plans to enter more team events or events as teams:
  * Top of the Rock (Sutton Bank, off-road)
  * Rapha Prestige Cross (Manchester, CX / Gravel)
  * Dirty Reiver (Kielder, Gravel / MTB)
  * Flanders Sportive (Road)
  * Scotton 100 (CX / Gravel / Road)
  * Castelli 24hr Criterium at Feltre, Italy (Road Crit)
* Young riders policy
  * Minimum age for club rides is agreed at 18 unless accompanied by an adult who is willing to take full responsibility.
  * Young riders should be directed to a club like Clifton who not only have suitable youth training programs but can accommodate younger riders on their weekend club rides
* Autumn Social
  * Club night out - 24th November
  * Night out in town - Possibly in Trembling Madness
* A.O.B.
  * VC York WhatsApp Group
    * Currently ride discussions and organisation occurs in a private chat group frequented by a small group of members
    * We plan to create a WhatsApp group that’s open to all members to discuss plans for upcoming rides and events
    * Paid club members only. Paid subscriptions will be a prerequisite of being added to the group.
    * Please ensure your British Cycling profile has an up to date mobile number so that you can be easily added.
    * Pete Lambert to set up the group and share information about joining it
  * Winter bike maintenance
    * Mudguards from November 1st to beginning of Feb, as always. Fit big flaps
    * Bikes must be in good mechanical working order for a ride, including decent (not over-worn) tyres, enough material remaining on brake pads / blocks
    * Pre-ride check to take place on club runs. Nobody likes spending their Saturday stood at the side of a lane getting cold while someone fixes a mechanical that could have been avoided with good maintenance
    * Safety lights (daylight running flashers) have become a necessity regardless of light-levels and conditions
  *  Club Kit
    * Steve unhappy with fit / quality of NoPinz kit
    *  Everybody else fine with fit / quality of NoPinz kit
    * No plans to change kit supplier at present
